Fausto Rosado

    Git differs from github in some important ways. First Git is built into most operating systems and is a version control system created by Linus Torvalds, creator of the Linux kernel. A version control system is a tool 
for developers to manage changes to code in files and directories that can keep track of changes so that changes to that code can be tracked over time and available to collaborators in one place for every one to access. 
Git includes a branching system so that code can be maintained by a team by users having different versions of the code at the same time and branching off to work on separate features without affecting the main codebase. These changes can be tracked on each branch, with developers roling over changes to the main codebase or reverting changes that a team may not like. 
Github is the platform online used to store the codebase and host repositories with the different branches tracking all the changes to the codebase by collaborators. Changes to the development environment locally can be pushed to github, where others may pull, merge those changes to their respective branches or with permission merge changes to the main codebase.

    
    The terminal is the command line tool or console that allows the user to streamline and automate task with graphical user interface representation. It is often faster and interacts with the operating system more directly via shell, bash or zsh, for example. It was the primary means to communicate with a computer before tools like mouse arose, using just text. This allows for commands that are more expressive and powerful compared to what the user can do in the GUI.


    As touched upon, three benefits of version control are development, staging and production. In development, different features of an application can be working on by members of a development team. These team members would test and commit and push changes to their branch while the scrum master decides what gets merged into the main codebase of the application. This assures the feature is being developed locally and on the branch separate from the main codebase. Only via regular meetings and targets will the branch be merged into a staging branch where members of the team test the code for any bugs or errors before folding into the main application and into production. Usually a staging server is established to test in an environment like production but without being live. It's testing the codebase to on the server or on the cloud since applications behave differently running live on the internet versus locally on a developer's computer. 
These three features development, staging and production make it so that a developement team can produce an application using git, pushing code to and from github that dovetails with sprints in scrum philosophy. 